# EventPlannerApp

  Welcome to my first ever application, an Event Planner app for Android! The goal of this application's development was equal parts "create a feasible solution to a mundane problem" as well as "develop my application development/coding skills". This application requires an Android device to be run and several optional permissions. The idea behind this was to create a sort of Calendar/Reminders fusion app that implemented pros and cons of both. With an event planner, the goal was to address the user's need for better organization and time management in an efficient and intuitive way. 
  The number of screens that this app uses was kept to a minimum. Of the screens included, there is a login screen on startup, your primary calendar view, an optional weekly view, and screens for both creating and editing events. This was a first go at something of this nature, so I didn't want to go too overboard and just work on the fundamentals. When creating the interface, the goal is always to keep make sure that no assumptions about the user are made, and that everything is as simple and easy to understand as possible. There should be no question about anything, and important widgets should stand out. I would say it is successful in that aspect, and also attempts to recreate what is a familiar calendar feel to those who don't always plan things on their devices.
  Coding this app required a lot of reading, learning, and watching. Thanks to the help of many YouTubers, I was able to not only create some functions which would have taken me much longer than it already did, but also LEARN about the application of those functions by further building on them and integrating them into a fluid UI. I tried to plan ahead and use the ol' paper pen technique of planning the layout in the same way one might plan an essay. I found that this strategy helped tremendously in keeping all the technical issues under control. 
  The most important part about testing code functionality is to do it often, and do it in small pieces. It's so important that you don't write a whole application before it gets tested, because often time bug reports don't point you to the real source of an error. By commenting things out, or leaving variables static, you can truly identify the points in which things fail. This saved me a lot of time, and also got me trained to think in a way that overcomes these bugs and makes me a better coder.
The biggest challenge in the development of this app, from start to finish, came almost immediately. While I had learned about TextViews, EditTexts, all the layouts, etc., the first thing I needed was a proper calendar screen as the first screen (after login). What I realized is that calendars are extremely dynamic and require a lot of automation. This is where recyclerviews and adapters became a critical point of developing this app (and also a point of great weakness for me). Thanks to the help of all the magnanimous individuals both on YouTube, and the popular coding forums, I was able to learn and better understand things like CalendarViews and RecyclerViews, and LayoutManager and inflation of views.
  I would say my biggest point of pride in this application was probably one of the smallest aspects. At the very beginning I developed my CalendarActivity as the primary screen, and didn't really understand most of what was going on between Adapters, Class extensions, and LocalDate methods. This is because the tutorials I followed were rather fast paced and at the time, above my current level. It was really a simple use of inflating a recyclerview layout with a viewholder that determined all aspects of a relevant month and formatting CalendarCells appropriately. And I must be honest that it was generally code I avoided touching at all costs BECAUSE I didnt' understand it too well. However, a certain feature was required (for me personally) to make a proper calendar app. If you've used Calendar on iOS, the calendar cells which hold appointments are displayed with a small dot in the center. The only way I was gonna be able to make this work was if I took apart this CalendarAdapter algorithm and fully committed to understanding the entire workings of my application. In short, I succeeded. I created an invisible field in every calendar cell which held a small ImgView. When the algorithm filtered through the days to find the correct month layout, I managed to construct my own algorithm which would iterate through all saved events, and if an event existed on a day during the View inflation, then that invisible field became visible. It worked with little issue, and was the cherry on top for finishing this application. Also, instead of a database which holds all appointments, I created a class which creates a database with the username to make accessing them a breeze. I thought this was kinda clever.
